README.md, before:

# setup

```bash
> mkdir vercel-mono-prisma
> cd vercel-mono-prisma
> git init
> pnpm init
> touch .gitignore
```

- add pnpm-workspace.yaml
- add turbo.json
- fill `.gitignore` with standard content

```bash
> mkdir -p apps/web packages/db
> cd packages/db
packages/db> pnpm init
packages/db> mkdir -p src/lib
packages/db> touch src/lib/index.js
```

- add dummy `get_users` in index.js
- package.json: change name to `@repo/db`, add type/main/files fields.

```bash
> cd ../../apps/web
apps/web> pnpm init
```

- add `@repo/db` dependency
- add svelte/-kit/vite devDependencies

```bash
apps/web> mkdir -p src/routes
apps/web> mkdir static
apps/web> touch src\routes\+page.svelte
apps/web> touch src\app.html
apps/web> touch src\hooks.server.js
apps/web> touch svelte.config.js
apps/web> touch vite.config.js
```

- fill files with standard content.
- import `get_users` into `+page.svelte`, and display the result.
- unpack into static: https://toolcool.org/random-favicon-generator/?icon=square-rotated-off&category=Shapes&stroke-width=1.00&stroke-color=1-1-1-1&has-stroke=true&fill-color=255-255-255-1&has-fill=false&bg-color=255-255-255-1&bg-type=2&rotation=0.00&scale=0.80&sharpness=0.00&smoothness=0.00

```bash
apps/web> cd ../..
> pnpm i
> turbo dev --filter web
```

- verify that users are listed.
- stop turbo dev.

```bash
> turbo build
> git add .
> git commit -m "init"
```

- use vscode to push it to github.

## head over to vercel and import the repo

### configure
![alt text](image.png)

### verify that everything runs ok
![alt text](image-1.png)


# Database
## Create a Postgres database
(from vercel dashboard)
![alt text](image-2.png)

Following the SvelteKit instructions:
```bash
> npm i -g vercel
> vercel link
vercel-mono-prisma❱ vercel link
Vercel CLI 33.7.0
? Set up “c:\srv\work\vercel-mono-prisma”? yes
? Which scope should contain your project? thebjorn hobby team
? Found project “thebjorn42/vercel-mono-prisma”. Link to it? yes
✅  Linked to thebjorn42/vercel-mono-prisma (created .vercel and added it to .gitignore)
> vercel env pull .env
> pnpme add @vercel/postgres --filter web
```

- use pgAdmin to verify connection parameters.
- create a cart table to fit the `@vercel/postgres` example.
- add apps/web/src/routes/+page.server.js etc. according to docs.

# Error 1
```bash
> turbo dev --filter web
...
web:dev:   VITE v5.2.10  ready in 1074 ms
web:dev:
web:dev:   ➜  Local:   http://localhost:5176/
web:dev:   ➜  Network: use --host to expose
web:dev: VercelPostgresError: VercelPostgresError - 'missing_connection_string': You did not supply a 'connectionString' and no 'POSTGRES_URL' env var was found.
web:dev:     at createPool (file:///C:/srv/work/vercel-mono-prisma/node_modules/.pnpm/@vercel+postgres@0.8.0/node_modules/@vercel/postgres/dist/chunk-WDBQYBZQ.js:161:11)
web:dev:     at Object.apply (file:///C:/srv/work/vercel-mono-prisma/node_modules/.pnpm/@vercel+postgres@0.8.0/node_modules/@vercel/postgres/dist/chunk-WDBQYBZQ.js:215:16)
web:dev:     at load (C:\srv\work\vercel-mono-prisma\apps\web\src\routes\+page.server.js:5:20)
web:dev:     at Module.load_server_data (C:\srv\work\vercel-mono-prisma\node_modules\.pnpm\@sveltejs+kit@2.5.7_@sveltejs+vite-plugin-svelte@3.1.0_svelte@5.0.0-next.120_vite@5.2.10_@typ_bs34xdsk7mkkgs2ku7c2vw6ru4\node_modules\@sveltejs\kit\src\runtime\server\page\load_data.js:61:41)
web:dev:     at C:\srv\work\vercel-mono-prisma\node_modules\.pnpm\@sveltejs+kit@2.5.7_@sveltejs+vite-plugin-svelte@3.1.0_svelte@5.0.0-next.120_vite@5.2.10_@typ_bs34xdsk7mkkgs2ku7c2vw6ru4\node_modules\@sveltejs\kit\src\runtime\server\page\index.js:140:19 {
web:dev:   code: 'missing_connection_string'
web:dev: }
```

It seems to work when pushing to vercel.
Manually setting POSTGRES_URL in the environment (even uri-encoded) does not connect.
```
web:dev: Error: Database connection string provided to `neon()` is not a valid URL. Connection string: "postgres://defaul...
```

Commit message:

no data on vercel, can't test locally..

README.md, after:

# setup

```bash
> mkdir vercel-mono-prisma
> cd vercel-mono-prisma
> git init
> pnpm init
> touch .gitignore
```

- add pnpm-workspace.yaml
- add turbo.json
- fill `.gitignore` with standard content

```bash
> mkdir -p apps/web packages/db
> cd packages/db
packages/db> pnpm init
packages/db> mkdir -p src/lib
packages/db> touch src/lib/index.js
```

- add dummy `get_users` in index.js
- package.json: change name to `@repo/db`, add type/main/files fields.

```bash
> cd ../../apps/web
apps/web> pnpm init
```

- add `@repo/db` dependency
- add svelte/-kit/vite devDependencies

```bash
apps/web> mkdir -p src/routes
apps/web> mkdir static
apps/web> touch src\routes\+page.svelte
apps/web> touch src\app.html
apps/web> touch src\hooks.server.js
apps/web> touch svelte.config.js
apps/web> touch vite.config.js
```

- fill files with standard content.
- import `get_users` into `+page.svelte`, and display the result.
- unpack into static: https://toolcool.org/random-favicon-generator/?icon=square-rotated-off&category=Shapes&stroke-width=1.00&stroke-color=1-1-1-1&has-stroke=true&fill-color=255-255-255-1&has-fill=false&bg-color=255-255-255-1&bg-type=2&rotation=0.00&scale=0.80&sharpness=0.00&smoothness=0.00

```bash
apps/web> cd ../..
> pnpm i
> turbo dev --filter web
```

- verify that users are listed.
- stop turbo dev.

```bash
> turbo build
> git add .
> git commit -m "init"
```

- use vscode to push it to github.

## head over to vercel and import the repo

### configure
![alt text](image.png)

### verify that everything runs ok
![alt text](image-1.png)


# Database
## Create a Postgres database
(from vercel dashboard)
![alt text](image-2.png)

Following the SvelteKit instructions:
```bash
> npm i -g vercel
> vercel link
vercel-mono-prisma❱ vercel link
Vercel CLI 33.7.0
? Set up “c:\srv\work\vercel-mono-prisma”? yes
? Which scope should contain your project? thebjorn hobby team
? Found project “thebjorn42/vercel-mono-prisma”. Link to it? yes
✅  Linked to thebjorn42/vercel-mono-prisma (created .vercel and added it to .gitignore)
> vercel env pull .env
> pnpme add @vercel/postgres --filter web
```

- use pgAdmin to verify connection parameters.
- create a cart table to fit the `@vercel/postgres` example.
- add apps/web/src/routes/+page.server.js etc. according to docs.

# Error 1
```bash
> turbo dev --filter web
...
web:dev:   VITE v5.2.10  ready in 1074 ms
web:dev:
web:dev:   ➜  Local:   http://localhost:5176/
web:dev:   ➜  Network: use --host to expose
web:dev: VercelPostgresError: VercelPostgresError - 'missing_connection_string': You did not supply a 'connectionString' and no 'POSTGRES_URL' env var was found.
web:dev:     at createPool (file:///C:/srv/work/vercel-mono-prisma/node_modules/.pnpm/@vercel+postgres@0.8.0/node_modules/@vercel/postgres/dist/chunk-WDBQYBZQ.js:161:11)
web:dev:     at Object.apply (file:///C:/srv/work/vercel-mono-prisma/node_modules/.pnpm/@vercel+postgres@0.8.0/node_modules/@vercel/postgres/dist/chunk-WDBQYBZQ.js:215:16)
web:dev:     at load (C:\srv\work\vercel-mono-prisma\apps\web\src\routes\+page.server.js:5:20)
web:dev:     at Module.load_server_data (C:\srv\work\vercel-mono-prisma\node_modules\.pnpm\@sveltejs+kit@2.5.7_@sveltejs+vite-plugin-svelte@3.1.0_svelte@5.0.0-next.120_vite@5.2.10_@typ_bs34xdsk7mkkgs2ku7c2vw6ru4\node_modules\@sveltejs\kit\src\runtime\server\page\load_data.js:61:41)
web:dev:     at C:\srv\work\vercel-mono-prisma\node_modules\.pnpm\@sveltejs+kit@2.5.7_@sveltejs+vite-plugin-svelte@3.1.0_svelte@5.0.0-next.120_vite@5.2.10_@typ_bs34xdsk7mkkgs2ku7c2vw6ru4\node_modules\@sveltejs\kit\src\runtime\server\page\index.js:140:19 {
web:dev:   code: 'missing_connection_string'
web:dev: }
```

Building and deploying runs without errors when pushing to vercel, but no data is displayed from the database.
Manually setting POSTGRES_URL in the environment (even uri-encoded) does not connect.
```
web:dev: Error: Database connection string provided to `neon()` is not a valid URL. Connection string: "postgres://defaul...
```
